根据性别，人口预测模型
然后 相关性分析


优势：保证种群稳定
劣势：影响生态系统


性别变（式子）
性别不变
分别做预测

性别比例
动态预测




第三问：评价模型？




第四问：
捕食者模型
物种竞争微分方程模型




采用模型
logistics模型
捕食者模型
物种竞争微分方程模型




元胞自动机规则
 

自动机的元胞只有三种——七鳃鳗 和 竞争者（寄生物）和 捕食者，并且由于每一格都代表种群，三种不同元胞不可重合

七鳃鳗格子有参数：总数量，性别比例，增长率，死亡率，被捕食率，被竞争率
捕食者格子有参数：总数量，增长率，死亡率，捕食率
竞争者格子有参数：总数量，增长率，死亡率，竞争率

其中（为了方便叙述，我都认为是线性的，具体建模可以改为非线性的函数关系，由于这是离散的，两者并无本质区别）

捕食者增长率 = 捕食率 乘以 常数 + 常数
竞争者增长率 = 竞争率 乘以 常数 + 常数
七鳃鳗增长率 = 性别比例 乘以 常数 + 常数

七鳃鳗性别比例 = 周围八格的空格 乘以 常数

捕食者死亡率 = 常数
竞争者死亡率 = 常数
（与七鳃鳗之间的相互作用，全部等效在增长率上，所以此处可以都认为是常数）
七鳃鳗死亡率 = 负常数 乘以 竞争率 + 负常数 乘以 捕食率 + 常数

竞争率 = 常数 乘以 竞争者周围八格的七鳃鳗数 （此处忽略种间竞争）
被竞争率 = 常数 乘以 七鳃鳗周围八格的竞争者数
捕食率 = 常数 乘以 竞争者周围八格的七鳃鳗数 
被捕食率 = 常数 乘以 七鳃鳗周围八格的捕食者数

最后，考虑种群分开与组合
对于以上三种元胞
上下左右四个格子中，如果有 空格/同种元胞 就移动过去随机数量的（也就是总数量减随机数，空格/同种元胞 加上这个数）
若没有空格或相同细胞，就不动



















A population that is necessarily dependent on reproduction for its development and continuation. Based on sexual reproduction, the birth rate (growth rate) of a population is greatly influenced by the sex ratio. Therefore, based on probabilistic considerations of sex chromosome binding, although many species exhibit a 1:1 sex ratio at birth, species tend to deviate from an even sex ratio in order to adapt to their environment and continue their populations. This is known as adaptive sex ratio variation. The sevengill eel is one such typical species.

However, the role of the sevengill eel is complex. For some lake habitats, it is a parasite with significant ecosystem impacts, and we want to reduce its reproduction; but at the same time, the sevengill eel is a source of food in some parts of the world, and is tasty, sought after, and endangered in some areas, and we want to promote its reproduction.

Therefore, we study the pros and cons of the ability to alter its sex ratio based on resource availability, model its relationship with growth rate, and thus study its effect on its impact on other species in the ecosystem, and utilize the advantages and disadvantages of changing the sex ratio of the sevengill to artificially influence its population and ensure the stability of the ecosystem, and thus apply this model to the farming and conservation of the sevengill, as well as the invasion and control of invasive control of the sevengill eel.




However, the role of the lamprey is complex. For some lake habitats, it is a parasite with significant ecosystem impacts, and we want to reduce its reproduction; but at the same time, the lamprey is a source of food in some parts of the world, and is tasty, sought after, and endangered in some areas, and we want to promote its reproduction.

Therefore, we study the pros and cons of the ability to alter its sex ratio based on resource availability, model its relationship with growth rate, and thus study its effect on its impact on other species in the ecosystem, and utilize the advantages and disadvantages of changing the sex ratio of the lamprey to artificially influence its population and ensure the stability of the ecosystem.